{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\sl480\slmult1\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Thayer School of Engineering\
Dartmouth College\
\
\'93Study of creep of alumina-forming austenitic stainless \
steel for high-temperature energy applications\'94\
\
Natalie Petrovna Afonina\
Master of Science\
\
Dr. Ian Baker \
Dr. Harold Frost \
Dr. Rachel Obbard
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\sl480\slmult1\sa240\qc

\fs28 \cf0 ABSTRACT\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\li716\fi2\sl360

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Alloyed with aluminum to provide corrosion resistance, alumina-forming austenitic (AFA) stainless steels have shown promise for application in the harsh environments seen in energy production where strong materials that are oxidation and corrosion resistant are needed.  The role of precipitates in AFA-type alloys, Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al and DAFA26 was investigated in this study.\
            The effects of cold work on the microstructural evolution during aging of solutionized Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %), was investigated.  Cold work prior to aging at either 700\'b0C or 800\'b0C facilitated the heterogeneous precipitation of both Laves phase and B2-type NiAl precipitates.  While often co-located after cold work, these particles were distinct. \uc0\u947 \'92-Ni3Al precipitates were also observed in samples aged at 700\'b0C with 90% prior cold work. Compared to material that had not been strained, defects introduced by 50 and 90% cold work at 700\'b0C and 90% cold work at 800\'b0C not only caused a more rapid precipitation in the matrix but also an increase in the total volume fraction of precipitates as compared to material that had been simply aged.\
		The effect of aging on the microstructure and mechanical properties of Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %) was evaluated.  An increase in the volume fraction of B2 and Laves phase precipitates in the alloy was accompanied by an increase in the yield strength from 205 MPa after the solutionizing anneal up to 383 MPa after aging at 800\'b0C for 1325 h.  After aging for 1325 h, even with extensive intermetallic grain boundary coverage, the alloy showed a room temperature elongation of 19%.\
		The relationship between the crystallographic orientation of Laves Fe2Nb and B2-NiAl precipitates and their f.c.c. parent matrix was investigated.  Four variants of the m // p, m // p orientation relationship proposed by Denham and Silcock (J. Iron Steel Inst. 207 (1969) 582) were observed for the Laves phase, and six variants of the m // p, m // p Kurdjumov-Sachs relationship were observed for the B2-NiAl phase.\
	The microstructural evolution of DAFA26 was also observed.  In addition to Laves phase and B2-NiAl precipitates, the evolution of the Ni3Al precipitates present in this alloy was investigated.\
\
\
In order to achieve energy conversion efficiencies of >50 % for steam turbines/boilers in power generation systems, materials required are strong, corrosion-resistant at high temperatures (>700\'b0C), and economically viable.  Austenitic steels strengthened with Laves phase and Ni3Al precipitates, and alloyed with aluminum to improve oxidation resistance, are potential candidate materials for these applications.  The creep resistance of these alloys is significantly improved through intermetallic strengthening (Laves-Fe2Nb + L12-Ni3Al precipitates) without harmful effects on oxidation resistance.   \
\
This research starts with microstructural and microchemical analyses of these intermetallic strengthened alumina-forming austenitic steels in a scanning electron microscope.  The microchemistry of precipitates, as determined by energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy and transmission electron microscope, is also studied.  Different thermo-mechanical treatments were carried out to these stainless steels in an attempt to further improve their mechanical properties.  The microstructural and microchemical analyses were again performed after the thermo-mechanical processing. Synchrotron X-ray diffraction was used to measure the lattice parameters of these steels after different thermo-mechanical treatments. Tensile tests at both room and elevated temperatures were performed to study mechanical behaviors of this novel alloy system; the deformation mechanisms were studied by strain rate jump tests at elevated temperatures.  Failure analysis and post-mortem TEM analysis were performed to study the creep failure mechanisms of these alumina-forming austenitic steels after creep tests. Experiments were carried out to study the effects of boron and carbon additions in the aged alumina-forming austenitic steels.  }