{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgray\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\li716\fi2\sl480\slmult1

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 CHAPTER 5	CONCLUSIONS 
\i\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx674\pardeftab720\li725\fi-12\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 		After annealing at 1250\'b0C, Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %) showed no precipitation in the single-phase f.c.c. matrix prior to aging. After aging for 2.4 h, 24 h, and 240 h, the alloy exhibited increasing quantities of fine dispersions of lightly contrasted 
\f1 Fe\sub 2\nosupersub Nb Laves phase precipitates. After aging for just 2.4 h, the Laves phase was present only on the grain boundaries, however after aging for 24 h and 240 h at 
\f0 800\'b0C
\f1 , in addition to appearing on the grain boundaries, the 
\f0 particles were also observed in the alloy\'92s austenite matrix. The precipitates along the grain boundaries appeared coarser than those in the interior of the grains in the matrix. A precipitate-free zone (PFZ) was visible adjacent to the grain boundary in the sample aged for 240 h.\
		
\f1 The L1\sub 2\nosupersub  phas
\f0 e
\f1  \uc0\u947 \'92-Ni\sub 3\nosupersub Al precipitate was found at 760\'b0C in a sample of 
\f0 Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %) homogenized at 1250
\f1 \'b0C 
\f0 for 24 h
\f1 , aged at 800\'b0C for 24 h and crept for ~800 h at 760\'b0C
\f0 .
\f1  Prior to this finding \uc0\u947 \'92-Ni\sub 3\nosupersub Al had only been found at 750\'b0C and was not found at 800\'b0C in an alloy of the same composition. \

\f0 		The area fraction of grain boundary 
\f1 Fe\sub 2\nosupersub Nb
\f0  Laves phase and NiAl precipitates increased with aging time. When the sample was fully solutionized at 1250
\f1 \'b0C, there was no grain boundary coverage. After aging for 2.4 h at 800\'b0C, the grain boundary area fraction increased to 42%. The grain boundary coverage was 69% for samples aged for 24 h and increased to 77% for samples aged 240 h. 
\f0\i \
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\li722\fi-9\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 		The high temperature YS, UTS and elongations to failure of tensile tests conducted at 760\'b0C were significantly lower when compared to results of tensile tests conducted at room temperature. The room temperature YS for the 2.4 h sample had the lowest value of all the heat treated samples (2.4 h, 24 h, 240 h), but had the highest value of all samples tested for the tests conducted at 760\'b0C. The sample aged for 240 h exhibited the lowest yield strength of all the heat treatments tested. \
		The number and size of precipitated 
\f1 Fe\sub 2\nosupersub Nb
\f0  Laves phase and NiAl precipitate particles increased over the course of the 500 h constant-stress creep tests both in the matrix and on the grain boundaries of all specimens tested.\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\li722\fi-9\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 \cb2 		The precipitate structure evolved in a similar way in cross-sectional and lengthwise samples taken from the gauge of each crept sample, but the structure was less evolved in samples taken from the head of the T-bone that had only been exposed to the temperature but not the stress of the creep test. \
		Specimens heat treated for 0 h and 24 h had similar primary creep rates, which were higher than the primary creep rate of the 2.4 h aged samples. However, they diverged in their secondary creep rate, with the homogenized samples exhibiting a significantly higher secondary creep rate and reaching 1.1% strain at the completion of the test, while the samples aged for 24 h only reached 0.6% strain. Samples aged for 2.4 h exhibited a similar secondary creep rate to the 24 h aged samples. Samples aged for 240 h exhibited the highest primary and secondary creep rates with an overall strain of 5.6%. \
		High temperature creep rates correlated well with high temperature yield strengths of the alloy, with faster creep rates correlating with lower yield strengths. \
\pard\tx560\tx674\pardeftab720\li725\fi-12\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 		The 700\'b0C creep test exhibited a significantly lower creep rate compared to the 760\'b0C creep test, with strains of 0.2% and 1.1%, respectively. }