{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\li719\fi1\sl480\slmult1

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 CHAPTER 6	FUTURE WORK\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\li719\fi1\sl480\slmult1\slminimum360\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Future work should be divided amongst several focus areas: \
1.	Although three longer-term constant-stress creep tests were conducted for durations above 500 h, further investigations into the Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %) alloy\'92s short and long-term duration creep rates and post-creep microstructural analysis is necessary to explore secondary creep properties and time to creep-rupture.  \
2.	
\f1 Ni\sub 3\nosupersub Al L1\sub 2 \nosupersub particles were found in TEM images taken of samples crept at 700-760\'b0C, but the upper temperature bound at which Ni\sub 3\nosupersub Al remains stable and provides superior creep properties is yet to be determined. Additionally, in order to characterize how 
\f0 Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %) performs at a range of high temperatures above 760\'b0C and identify the effect of temperature on creep rates, further constant-stress creep tests at temperatures above 760\'b0C should be performed and the presence of 
\f1 Ni\sub 3\nosupersub Al investigated by imaging with TEM
\f0 . \
3. 	The effect of adding a small amount of silicon to Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %) should be studied. More particularly, since the addition of silicon has been shown to increase the formation of Laves phase in several steels, the creep properties of the model alloy with 0.2% added silicon should be studied. The same aging protocol used for the non-silicon doped material should be administered and creep tests conducted at 760\'b0C and 35 MPa in order to compare the obtained creep rates and characterized microstructure to those obtained in this investigation. }