{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 OVERVIEW\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj

\b0 \cf0 Even with the increasing use of renewable energy, the primary energy sources for the foreseeable future for power generation are likely to be fossil fuels. Thus, it is critical to use these resources as efficiently as possible for both economic reasons and to minimize carbon dioxide emissions. Increasing a power plant\'92s operating temperature from 873 K to 1073 K increases efficiency from <40% to >50%, which requires materials that are creep-resistant, can withstand oxidative and corrosive environments, and are economically viable. Affordable materials that can satisfy these requirements may also find application in supercritical CO\sub 2\nosupersub  cycles and as tubing for molten salts for concentrated thermal solar power systems. Unfortunately, current martensitic/ferritic alloys are limited to operating temperatures of \uc0\u8804 873\'a0K. A number of recent efforts have focused on devising new austenitic steels strengthened with Laves phases whose purpose is to provide a \'93grain boundary (GB) precipitation strengthening mechanism\'94
\f1 .
\f0  The best recently-developed alloy (at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory) is an alumina-forming austenitic (AFA) stainless steel that contains L1\sub 2\nosupersub , B2 and C14 Laves phase precipitates, which has a creep-rupture life at 1023 K and 100 MPa that is an order of magnitude longer than that of the iron-based superalloy A286. While great progress has been made in the development of AFA stainless steels, how the multiple precipitates present contribute to the high temperature creep strength and affect the ductility is poorly understood. \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 Intellectual merit of the proposed activity
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj
\cf0 The aim and intellectual merit of the proposed activity
\b  
\b0 is to ascertain the deformation mechanisms associated with GB precipitation strengthening, and to understand the fundamental deformation behavior in alloys containing both a precipitate free zone (PFZ) and multiple types of precipites in both the GBs and the matrix each of which can contribute differently to the deformation behavior. The work will be performed on the model AFA stainless steel Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al, which was chosen because it has good mechanical properties, it can be fully solutionized at 1523 K and because of our experience with it. The work will examine the effects of different amounts of lattice precipitation and GB coverage by precipitates on creep behavior. We will also determine why the material can exhibit extensive room temperature elongation when the GBs are almost completely covered in brittle phases. Detailed microstructural and defect characterization by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) wlll be performed before and after mechanical testing. TEM 
\i in-situ
\i0  straining and SEM 
\i in-situ
\i0  straining studies performed at 293 K and 1033 K will examine both dislocation/precipitate and dislocation/GB interactions, including understanding the role of the PFZ along the GBs.  \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi360\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 Broader Implications of the Proposed Activity
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj
\cf0 The
\b  
\b0 broader implications of the proposed activity
\b  
\b0 include
\b  
\b0 the training of both a Ph.D. student and several undergraduates. All Ph.D. students are required to take Ethics training. The student will attend professional development seminar series such as the Learning Community for Future Faculty offered by Dartmouth's Center for the Advancement of Learning (DCAL), which covers principles of learning, lesson design, collaborative learning, inclusiveness/diversity, and practice teaching. Dartmouth is one of the first institutions to become an Affiliate of the Alan Alda Center for Communicating Science through which we have a ten-week cross-disciplinary course for graduate students in science communication. Dartmouth\'92s Outreach Office works with DCAL to integrate these trainings with opportunities for hands-on application through science outreach in local schools, such as lunch-time Science Cafes where graduate students have informal conversations with middle school youngsters about their fields, and Science Pubs, in which community members and researchers have lively conversations about science topics. Both the Outreach Office and DCAL undertake assessments of graduate student professional development programs for continuous quality improvement. Outcomes of the Engineering Ph.D. program are assessed through both a Thayer School survey and an on-line survey.\'a0The work will also be performed by a number of undergraduates, typically two per year, who will work closely with the P.I. and the Ph.D. student. The P.I. has a strong record of mentoring undergraduates, particularly women in his research. The work will also involve collaboration with Dr. Eric Stach of the Brookhaven National Laboratory.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi360\qj
\cf0 Elucidating the interactions between dislocations and the multiple precipitates in AFA steels, will help not only in their future design, but will also aid in the design of other advanced alloys that contain multiple types of brittle intermetallics. It will illuminate whether brittle GB precipitates or the inclusion of precipitates that are softer than the matrix are useful for creep strengthening. Finally, it will attempt to understand why substantial tensile ductility is possible even when the GBs are covered with brittle phases, which will aid in their incorporation, rather than avoidance \'96 as is current practice, in other alloys systems. The deliberate incorporation of brittle intermetallic compounds represents a paradigm shift in alloy design.\
The results will be published in refereed journals and presented at conferences.
\f2 \
}