{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\fi-7\sl360\slmult1\qc

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS \
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\fi-7\sl360\slmult1

\b0 \cf0 I would like to thank: \
		My adviser Professor Ian Baker, whose patience, expertise, unwavering support and encouragement made it possible for me to complete my studies. \
		The Baker Lab Research Group for their support and guidance. \
		The Carpenter Technology Corporation for providing test material for this study. \
		The Thayer School of Engineering Instrument Room staff for teaching me how to wire electronics properly and avoid shocking myself. \
		Claire Stolz, for the pep talks worthy of rousing armies and accompanying me on moonlit Methow walks. Without you by my side the cougars would\'92ve gotten me.\
		Nate Beatty, for being there in the darkest hour, for sharing a love of mini-adventures and always having my back. \
		Mark Fischer, for being a watchful older brother and lending a new perspective. You\'92ve kept me successfully out of trouble most of the time. \
		Julian Childs-Walker, for being my twin and remaining the only person to ever hitchhike past the Arctic Circle to adventure with me. You\'92ve continuously helped me get up to no good and our conversations help me make sense of this world. \
		I can\'92t convey how much I owe my family for getting me this far.\
		My sister Jane Bellousov for being the level-headed one in the family and her incredible resilience. I can\'92t wait to go on more adventure trips with you. \
		My father Yevgeniy Belousov, for encouraging me to stop working so hard and go on more climbing breaks outside. You\'92ve provided much needed perspective and inspiration.  \
		My grandmother Dr. Galina Gataulina who worries for me about having time to finish my Masters degree, encouraging me not to procrastinate and feeding me delicious piroshky. \
		My grandfather Dr. Akhiyar Myginovich for reminding me that life can be filled with meaningful work and to never lose your inner child wonder of how the world works. For always being proud and supportive and teaching me how to use a crowbar to pull nails and lay bricks in a straight line. You encouraged me on my path to graduate school, and I wish you\'92d still be here to see me complete what I started.  \
		Most importantly, my mother Dr. Irina Afonina, without whom I would not be here today. Who supported me at every step from the moment the two of us immigrated to the United States from Russia. You gave me room to figure things out on my own and spread my wings. You sadly left us before I could finish this thesis, but I know you would\'92ve been proud of me and would have loved to do the first round of edits. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\fi-7\sl360\slmult1\qc

\i \cf0 I dedicate this thesis to my mother.\
Your support, unconditional love and sacrifices are responsible for everything I\'92ve accomplished. \
 I miss you every day. }