{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 BaskOldFace;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red54\green54\blue54;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\sl480\slmult1\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Thayer School of Engineering\
Dartmouth College\
\
\'93Study of creep of alumina-forming austenitic stainless \
steel for high-temperature energy applications\'94\
\
Natalie Petrovna Afonina\
Master of Science\
\
Dr. Ian Baker \
Dr. Rachel Obbard \
Dr. Abc Abc
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\sl480\slmult1\sa240\qc

\fs28 \cf0 ABSTRACT
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\sl480\slmult1

\fs24 \cf0 	General intro\'85. The microstructure of a high-temperature superalloy was examined before and after creep and heat treatments. It was determined that\'85 \
	Comparison between\'85.show that\'85.Abc\'85. Application of this work in future studies could reduce noise, improve abc and reduce abc.  \
A constant stress creep machine was designed and constructed, since it was necessary to hold stress constant in the study. Bamboo structured and coarse-grain polycrystalline specimens were fabricated\
with varying large grain sizes. Creep tests were conducted holding stress and temperature constant while monitoring strain rate.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li721\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi432\qj

\f2\fs24 \cf2 Alloyed with aluminum to provide corrosion resistance, alumina-forming austenitic (AFA) stainless steels have shown promise for application in the harsh environments seen in energy production where strong materials that are oxidation and corrosion resistant are needed.  The role of precipitates in AFA-type alloys, Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al and DAFA26 was investigated in this study.\
\pard\tx5530\pardeftab720\qj
\cf2             The effects of cold work on the microstructural evolution during aging of solutionized Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %), was investigated.  Cold work prior to aging at either 700\'b0C or 800\'b0C facilitated the heterogeneous precipitation of both Laves phase and B2-type NiAl precipitates.  While often co-located after cold work, these particles were distinct. 
\f0 \uc0\u947 
\f2 \'92-Ni\sub 3\nosupersub Al precipitates were also observed in samples aged at 700\'b0C with 90% prior cold work. Compared to material that had not been strained, defects introduced by 50 and 90% cold work at 700\'b0C and 90% cold work at 800\'b0C not only caused a more rapid precipitation in the matrix but also an increase in the total volume fraction of precipitates as compared to material that had been simply aged.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\qj
\cf2 The effect of aging on the microstructure and mechanical properties of Fe-20Cr-30Ni-2Nb-5Al (at. %) was evaluated.  An increase in the volume fraction of B2 and Laves phase precipitates in the alloy was accompanied by an increase in the yield strength from 205 MPa after the solutionizing anneal up to 383 MPa after aging at 800\'b0C for 1325 h.  After aging for 1325 h, even with extensive intermetallic grain boundary coverage, the alloy showed a room temperature elongation of 19%.\
The relationship between the crystallographic orientation of Laves Fe\sub 2\nosupersub Nb and B2-NiAl precipitates and their f.c.c. parent matrix was investigated.  Four variants of the \sub m\nosupersub  // \sub p\nosupersub , \sub m\nosupersub  // \sub p\nosupersub  orientation relationship proposed by Denham and Silcock (J. Iron Steel Inst. 207 (1969) 582) were observed for the Laves phase, and six variants of the \sub m\nosupersub  // \sub p\nosupersub , \sub m\nosupersub  // \sub p\nosupersub  Kurdjumov-Sachs relationship were observed for the B2-NiAl phase.\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj
\cf2 	The microstructural evolution of DAFA26 was also observed.  In addition to Laves phase and B2-NiAl precipitates, the evolution of the Ni\sub 3\nosupersub Al precipitates present in this alloy was investigated.
\f3 \
\
\
In the present work, the effects of heat treatment on the microstructure and mechanical behavior of an alumina-forming austenitic stainless steel, Fe\'9620Cr\'9630Ni\'962Nb\'965Al (at%) have been investigated. We show that, despite extensive intermetallic cover- age of the grain boundaries, surprisingly, the material was able to show both good ductility and strength.}